The British Library's collection of Playbills ranges from the 1730s to the 1950s. Each a single sheet of paper, they list entertainments at theatres, fairs, pleasure gardens and other venues. Small 'handbills' circulated amongst theatre-goers enjoying the performance and larger 'great bills' used for posting on walls and windows are assembled in over 1000 bound volumes with an estimated total of 234,000 playbills. 

Given the ephemeral nature of Playbills (fires always needed lighting!) we are fortunate to have such a large number survive, thanks largely to the zeal of known collectors who gathered them together. These preserved Playbills offer a wealth of historical detail with thousands of personal names of actors, playwrights, composers, and theatre managers. Titles in characteristic large 
type indicate the range and frequency of popular performances and much-loved dramas still performed today, but, equally important, let us glimpse the less well-known and even forgotten plays. 

These promising rich details have been so near yet so far from our fingertips because past constraints have left this mass of historical print largely uncatalogued. Some volumes are listed on [Explore](http://explore.bl.uk) but the entries do not expand beyond naming a location (town), particular theatre(s), and an indication of approximate date(s). Large numbers of Playbills have now been digitised and can be freely viewed on the main catalogue [Explore the British Library](http://explore.bl.uk). 

But - the information about historical people and entertainments is locked on the printed page and can't be searched for. Current catalogue searching cannot uncover the level of detail important to researchers: no titles; no names of actors, dramatis personae; no dates of performance, or details of songs performed. 

You can help. By transcribing selected key components from individual playbills, you can enrich the Library's Explore catalogue. A few moments of your time will help permanently enhance the way they can be found and reviewed. Others will get to share the interesting insight you've gained into past entertainments, and historians and other researchers will be able to discover and interpret the records you've improved. You'll provide vital evidence for the performance history of little-known plays and other entertainments. You may even uncover plays and songs not known to history!

This is a work-in-progress, so please have a go and do let us know what you think: is there too much to transcribe, too little? Too much, or not enough structure?
